---
title: VCL conf call 2-5-2009
---

VCL-dev 2/05/2009 call

Roll Call:

Josh Thompson
Andy Kurth
John Bass
Andrew Brown
Brian Bouterse
Aaron Peeler

Agenda
1 - ESX module VCL-29
2 - OS module progress VCL-23
3 - Access methods NX protocol VCL-80

1 - ESX module VCL-29
Brian - ESX module readme file
[https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/vcl/trunk/managementnode/lib/VCL/Module/Provisioning/esx.README](https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/vcl/trunk/managementnode/lib/VCL/Module/Provisioning/esx.README)
Brian/Andrew - ESX host flow for esx.pm module using ARP as to not
pre-define fixed
addresses in dhcpd.conf. esx module registers vmx configured to
autogenerate MAC address. by using vmware tools query the vm server what
the MAC address is. Then poll ARP table to find assigned IP address then
edit /etc/hosts file so vcld can use shortname to talk to guest OS.

John/Aaron - May cause issues with multiple management node in the same
subnet or subnet ranges or need to pre-define which MAC addresses.
John - suggestion, may need to explore cisco based tool dhcpd helper or
something to
help coordinate the dhcp tasks.

Andrew - suggestion - to add support to esx.pm to handle both cases
if MAC address defined in computer table proceed as normal
elsif MAC address if not defined in computer table use the vmware
autogenerated method.

2 - OS module progress VCL-23
Review what is involved with the capture routine/s
Andy - provides overview of the capture process
this process differs between xCAT and vmware module. Future target goal is
to have single primary process for any provisioning module.
Andy - flow for xcat capture process:
a)OS capture_prep
set root password to common
log users off - if connected
remove user account
sshd-> auto
clean temp...
defrag
remove pagefile/reboot
wait until back up
sshd \-> manual
config firewall
copy sysprep/scripts/drivers

b)Prov capture_prep xCAT specific
create .tmpl
edit nodetype.tab
nodeset <node> image

c) Prov capture_begin
sysprep.cmd

d) Prov capture_monitor
monitors the capture process for xcat type of resources
checks boot state

Again the plan is to expand these routines for all modules currently
vmware.pm is using
internal capture routine and not using any of these.

Andy - will document that flow/logic on confluence
Brian - will create JIRA issues on dev plans on esx.pm

Aaron - suggestion - extend vmhostprofile table to store any hard coded
settings that are being used within the esx module. Would allow greater
flexibility for small changes in infrastructure environments.

3 - Access methods VCL-23
Brian - NX protocol - talking with NX members.
would like to make NX (Nomachine) an access method

Group discussion - General goal is to extend the image profile for the
support of multiple
remote access connection methods/profiles on a per image basis. Then either
present to the user each available access method available or in user
preferences order which access method is desired(if available).

End of meeting
